Countless generations ago, a great war was fought. Upon the land that Nesai now sits, one of the bloodiest battle of the war raged. Little is known now about who fought in that battle and who the victors were, if any. But the great destruction wrought by the clashing armies shattered and shaped the landscape, and their blood seeped deep into the land.

The island chain of Bastet's claws once used to be a single landmass, before a calamitous event shattered the island into three smaller islands, and scarred each of those in turn. The islands of the chain are carved with canyons and chasms, and life struggles to take root in the desert landscapes. Beneath the islands, the stone is rich with a rare ore still steeped with the blood of the countless dead of wars long past. For any that are hardy enough to survive in the cruel desert islands, this ore can be recovered and refined into the rare and valuable mourningsteel. This metal is dark in colour, and carries with it a magical aversion to all things holy.

Nesai was founded in the year 555, (Roughly 200 years ago depending on the campaign) when Zehyinian settlers discovered a vast deposit ore in a canyon that is believed to be the site of the largest battle of whatever war may have occurred. With their tremendous luck at finding such a valuable deposit, and their lifetime of existing in inhospitable desert environments, the settlers founded Nesai. Since then it has flourished into a trading hub of the Wine Isles, exporting their valuable mourningsteel for a high price.

However, the artisan-priests of Nesai discovered a method to refine the metal further, imbuing it with their deity's power to create solacesteel. Solacesteel is an incredibly valuable metal that carries with it the magical ability to repel undead. As more and more undead are sighted within the isles, the price of Solacesteel is climbing higher and higher.

Geographically, Nesai is split into two halves. Atop the canyon is located the temple district, the Wadjetrun, Khepri's Rise, and Ptahstep. At the bottom of the canyon you'll find the Nesai docks, the slums, and the House of Sobek.

The temple district overlooks the canyon on the eastern side of the city. With shrines and temples to each of the Osirian pantheon, the original stonework and artistry has been lovingly maintained over the two centuries. The large pyramid is the tomb of Ta-Roten-Sekhet, the first pharaoh of Nesai. She was not the city's founder, but came into power in 576 as the city was beginning to find its wealth. She was a shrewd politician that enabled the city to become one of the wealthiest in the isles, but she was also known for her greed. The pyramid was finished a full 13 years before she was assassinated. Many have attempted to rob her tomb, but none so far have succeeded. Later pharaohs of Nesai have also constructed pyramids for their tombs, but only Ta-Roten-Sekhet's is within the citry's walls.

The Wadjetrun, named for the river serpent goddess Wadjet, is the name of the river that flows through Nesai from a spring to the north of the city. Most of the city's commercial district is build along the edges of the river, so much so that access to the river is almost entirely through these businesses. Many bridges span the river connecting the businesses like a street. Most of the city's housing is built off of this central thoroughfare. The Pharaoh's palace is built above the mouth of the Wadjetrun, to the north.

Khepri's Rise in the north-eastern portion of the city overlooks the temple district and the Wadjetrun. By the city's only gate, this portion of the city is poorer than the Wadjetrun, but wealthy enough to not be forced to the slums at the bottom of the city.

Ptahstep rests on a rocky shelf 50-feet down from the top of the canyon, to the west of the city. It is the home to the artisan-priests of Nesai, and is a bustling hive of activity in the refining of mourningsteel and solacesteel.

At the bottom of the canyon, lies the city's docks. These piecemeal docks are made from dozens of cobbled-together jetties spanning from eight central stone buildings. These buildings are known as the gates of Nesai, and each contain teleportation circles that link with matching circles atop the canyon. Early on in Nesai's wealthy days, the portals were installed to save time and resources moving cargo by crane up and down the cliffs. Around these stone buildings, atop the jetties nearest the canyon wall, are the slums of the city. Dockworkers that cannot afford a home atop the city reside in a shanty town of wooden buildings.

Opposite the city, a great stone fortress known as the House of Sobek houses the city's military forces. A grand archway within provides a defensive port for the city's vessels, and above that housing for the military forces and training. 

